hey we should be live
here I am exhausted
today
um no smart things are coming out of my
head for at least the next few
hours so I thought what I'd do is I
would just do a quick hour and a half
stream uh before
dinner hi welcome I thought what I'd do
today is I just do a quick hour and a
half stream before dinner work on uh a
couple things for the next release it's
just going to be silly stuff I'm going
to make some going to fiddle around see
if I can make some animations for the
release um I figure that'll be fun and
I'll answer whatever stuff on
RL and then later tonight I'm going to
be working with some contributors uh to
merge a last couple of environment
because what we've got right
now just show this briefly start a
stream
so we have right now we have Baseline
for this Baseline Baseline Baseline
Baseline Baseline these three M's are
missing baselines this one we may or may
not have a baseline in time for uh this
we just fixed last night so we'll be
merging
this go hopefully we have a baseline
trained later today or
tomorrow and then I've got Enduro to
merge hopefully later tonight Xander has
this trash pickup M that I'm hoping that
we get in in the next couple of days and
I have one M side project I've been
working on off stream as well so that's
the stuff for the evening for now I
think what I'm going to do here uh I'm
going to just
make make a new
this and I think what we're going to try
to do is we're just going to do I want
to do a couple visualizations of like
what has changed essentially just how
this update is uh so let's start
animations
cool uh so
this I think I'll start not by like
pulling code in I think I'll just start
by figuring out how to do the pie chart
type
thing I think I want to do this with
just rib right
let me
see
textures they have like
Circle draw a circle
right if I just do like
this how do I how am I going to save
this out
though do I want to just use the
python API version of this or am I going
to hate
that just to make it easier
yeah cuz I don't know how I'm going to
save to video
otherwise and let's just start with the
python API
okay
dot hold on what's the C
API I want the C style python API at the
very
least okay so I'm right it's just the
auto completes
wrong you do this because this gives you
C Style
stupid
yeah syntax highl will
complain set Target FP
60 okay
okay so we're going to do
black uh color puff
BG equals I think you just can do color
like this we'll wait on that though
we'll start with black just want to get
something drawing
float
radius sure so we'll just do RL draw
Circle draw a circle
sector and we'll do effect two Center
will
be is it 7 20 I think no
60 540 so Center of
screen what did this give me radius 50
let's do
200 start angle end angle will be 120 I
think it's in
degrees in
r.
fade okay we'll see what this
does uh T complete
this and this is
200 we do 130
[Music]
to
uh this is the annoying thing about
python API you have to do stuff like
screen that's
bizarre how the heck do that even
possible um
huh this has my own screen on
it yeah this is not supposed to even be
remotely
possible uh what the hell just
oh I forgot to do begin
drawing that's
it I still know why it populates it with
my own
screen but cool
so yep there is circle thing right so
the idea is I just want to make like a
basic code graph thing where I show uh
code distribution puffer uh 10 and then
code distribution for new puffer version
and I figured it would be really easy to
just prototype this thing in rayb I can
animate it if I want I could do
whatever let me see who's bugging me in
here op should
Ms oh I didn't realize that there
gestures
here
cool good to
know so let's see what we have access to
we've we've
got
[Music]
collisions
rectangle Circle I think we just stick
to Circle
sector yeah we just stick to uh
Circle sector
data python this is going to be dummy
data for like number of
lines so this has like I don't know
3,000 lines of python
see 15,000 lines like
uh
GSL I say
[Music]
500 let's do something like
this oh and then
l
in data.
size uh
start
zero so we're going to
do
equals lines / Total Lines *
360 and then we'll do colors let's just
make some like colors
this
color zip
wrong so
uh maybe it's the
colors maybe you have to do
255 yeah that was it okay cool so this
is how easy it was to draw a little pie
chart right was very very easy
probably so let's do
400 okay big pie
chart uh this sector thing I think 32
control
smoothness does this make it
smoother yeah that's way smoother you
can
I would like to add text to
these let me see how we're going to add
the text because I have to rotate the
text as well right
or I could not rotate the text and I
could just have it be a
legend let's try that
first we'll see how it looks we'll do
the simple thing
first let's not bother with this
enumerate thing it's kind of
gross I I in
range when
data oh no what you do is you do
enumerate right
numer data
items colors colors
I and now what we'll do is we will draw
text Position will be
at
plus I
text text position
X position
20 draw right rectangle expected five
arcs got three it just doesn't know the
API is
all yeah so for this one you
do rectangle is going to be position X
position
y Ty
color I mean that was surprisingly
decent for our first
attempt
right for like 10 minutes a very sleepy
work okay so now what we're going to
do
are we're going to turn this into an
animation let me make sure I can see my
chat stuff
animation so this is going to
be off
one and then this is going to be puff
two and let me just estimate
let's say that we have
3,000
z
z and like
okay and we're going to animate
from one to the
next so we're going to make a little
[Music]
chart put this under
here ra chart puff
one let's see what this does initially
okay so yep hope this
works you have to do like
if
wow I think this works now because I can
hit escape and it closes
perfect and now what we're going to do
is lurp some data
across I don't know some
frames 60 frames
D1
* 60 - I or
plus D2 * I over
60 all
right and then we do draw
chart data and then where's our FPS
lurs it's amazing how much I wake
up when I have something really easy to
code
like I was dead tired and like no can
still code basic
so draw a
chart
ah this is
why got lurs
this isn't that funny how easy it is to
just make like a really snazzy little
animation I mean that took like no time
and no
effort not done here though we're going
to improve some stuff
Lines start
angle Total Lines over
see what this
does okay so from this we can very
easily sequence together something cool
I'm trying to think what I want to do
for the
I'm trying to think if I want to draw
like both of
them I think what I want to do
is is just sequence some frames
basically all right so I'm going to do
that's
nice that shows very cleanly
right now we just have to clean up the
left side I want to add stars or
something I could pull star chart
fun let me at least get this pie chart
graph working first so basically what I
want to do I'm just like I'm tired today
so I just didn't
uh I'm making some animations that I
want to use for the next the release
announcements um because this is really
like just a stupidly big code release so
I want to show like how the code base
has changed over time I want to just
show some like some cool metrics
basically just stuff I can stick into
like a 15 second teaser trailer
I'll probably do this and then like like
snap together some like quick things of
all the environments or whatever that
we've got
uh so let me think let's Center the
text first of
all and also like what languages am I
even going to have I need to like get
these numbers
from each repository don't I
I think the easiest is just going to be
to hardcode
this somebody made one and go that's
funny
is there no like standard just line
count tool I mean I guess I can just
write like some
little script
right I have to just make sure that I
don't get um oops there's camera dead I
just have to make sure I don't get
intermediate get
files shouldn't be that hard I'll
probably just do it off of a fresh clone
so that'll be
easiest yeah I think we'll do something
like this
one okay and then we'll do the same
thing on
dev and we'll call this P two
and now I should have nice
files and all I have to
do is mess with this
all I have to do is mess with this
script a little
bit cool so this actually gives
me uh something that's fairly reasonable
looking except
I need to exclude some
so you can see right here here are all
the
pix's here is all the pi
there's like a bunch of tests and stuff
in
here I know I don't have this much
python
so
P yeah I'm just going to
GPT I'm going be
xes oops oh I meant to open other
profile not in not
Ino
okay clean up
these say make
B script that Loops
over a list of
extensions or what now just clean up
this let's just
say make it
strict
don't
include
see exclude
hell
um this is
well this
is this looks more
correct I don't know what the
hell I hate R
so we have 1900 lines of pix which is
about
right and then there's no way this is
12200 lines where's this all coming
this we don't count the third party
environment B
okay there we go 8,000 l
how the hell do I have 8,000 lines of
python that's
disgusting okay so this is fine this is
like 1500 lines
is and then the core should be like
another okay so they're like some old
UTS and stuff to clean up
still this is a s okay I forgot I had
the SDM this is old Nathan has like just
has left some dead code in here yeah we
got some
utils does it really does this actually
add up to 8,000 this
is I don't believe this adds up to 8,000
does it
does yeah I got lots of just random
files in here taking opic this is a
thousand that I forgot about here and
there
yeah
okay oh and then all these new ocean
bindings as
well 13,000 lines of
pix I think that's all I want to count
as well right
go of one I've got 8
839 so a little bit more python in the
old one just some old
stuff uh I have 83 lines of scon those
were 83 fairly important lines
see this is how much puff how much
bigger puffer Li
gets um
radius it should be a square root
shouldn't it
that doesn't look very impressive when
you put it that
now this has got to be wrong because it
more than doubled the size of the
library
right Total
lines am I just really bad at gauging
area
would bar be better to
do cuz bar you can
see you really can't see from a circle
can
you I was thinking of like the get code
graphs on a pie chart but
all what if I just make this like a bar
chart
okay let's scrap this thing for now or
not use this thing for
withd is going to
be what
bars uh X gets ignored y gets ignored we
don't use either of
these
here just do
let's see how this
looks integer is
oh that looks
cool
rware let's
see smaller
Ms 175 million
steps larger B uh smaller batch One
update
logs
yep oh he did the network and see as
well well done
man see did you have time to mess with
any graphics
y we discussed this
stuff small
changes or where weight stuff in did not
have time
to add any
graphics but still very
good well
shortly I have stuff training I believe
at the moment oh it did just finished
technically so we will be able to do
that
shortly I want to finish this
stream I'll just tell them I'm chilling
on stream I've got for folks who aren't
aware there is a Discord discord.gg
puffer uh we all organized stuff in
there lots of contributors lots of
helpful
Co just had to answer a quick thing um
okay I like the way that this anim is
let's
fix draw text what we do
one uh right here so this is y this goes
to 150 I I
go and then the jankiest text alignment
trick in the book
fond that's fine though we'll just add a
couple
many let me just see if it looks better
you know
that looks good to
me and we will select some colors and
BG was it um I always forget what the
puff background color
is at least in
uh in
decimal no and
it 6 24
24 this is the puffer background
thing oh I just have it in pure white
here that's
this is supposed to be
255 that
happened and then we get some
colors which are going to
140 I think this goes to 130 now right
yeah there you go that's
aligned pth on syon
C and then we draw on the rectangle we
draw
this did I see like a weird
decimal yeah so it's doing some weird
I think we're going to actually do a
little different instead doing box line
over to
this yeah look at
that and then we'll put this in like a
slightly smaller
font like
30 which
means I think you move this down by five
if I'm right
it's pretty well
[Music]
though let's see when uh
one let's see
when 10 is released
pie I'm not going to do downloads
because most of our downloads come from
the uh the container so you can't really
this are these evenly
spaced wait
17 no these are not evenly spaced at all
uh I'm trying to think how I want to do
this then
yo going to work on fixes then come back
to updating Warehouse design of our
Weare goix says yeah
awesome that's great I'm doing silly
things I'll show you the
latest making silly little animations
for uh release promo materials
mhm hey the Stars don't uh repo does not
star itself speaking of which star the
puffer helps out a
can I just convert these into a number
is they're like a simple just do
mer oh literally it's just yeah it's in
date time
cool time
stamp yeah okay we'll just use
this so
do this for
now and then we will
X+ 10 and then RL draw
Circle something like
this
stars and this will be at like 100
something that's hilarious that it comes
up with a function that doesn't
exist oh no it does exist I'm just
dumb well the package design is dumb
from datetime import date time like piss
off unconverted data remains
we're going to just do stupid
things this is like a oneof single
purpose script
here hours so
AB
day I've got weights uploaded for multi
aent correctly
confirm each layer is treating the
multiple agents like a batch of M's each
layer yeah multiple agents is just bat
size and you'll notice in the
Capi that um there is a there is a bat
size parameter which should be set to
the number of agents and the reason for
that is we do static allocation so we
actually need to know how many agents
you have ahead of
time good J good job on you for actually
adding the C policy I figured I would
have to do
this uh we didn't call it oh no we did
call
it let's just put it up
here let's just put a break
St let's try
this lambas are weird and
not
why it's over a
million I don't freaking know
is the first date like absurdly early or
some
[ __ ] yes it
is
2022 yeah because this is early in Dev
okay stamps
snake example helps yeah it should it's
the same
thing I'm just writing brand dead code
real
quick I think if I just
do can I just do over one4 or
something and then y grows going down so
it has to be minus I
think just like this
be yeah 100
and then what is it
1080 maybe like
uh we have too many stars it has to go
like this
Stars ready
boss oh shoot you're damn it bet I
thought you'd be I thought you would be
home later dude [ __ ] I'm going to dinner
in like 10
minutes um I will be going for like a
relatively quick
dinner let me see yeah I was I'm just
doing stupid [ __ ] here like this is I
mean you can see what I'm doing here
oops guess not what did I just
break yeah there you
go I'll be around Alp free this evening
okay let me see code real quick because
I this is the this is the main thing for
the evening is fixing your stuff usually
sleep is yeah I
know and what can I say I did
I did like Max Speed intervals today in
the morning and then I pulled 400 so
yeah that tends to put you to sleep
don't get drunk you [ __ ] I don't drink
alcohol hardly
ever I have like a completely boring
existence with very few
Pleasures
um okay so where what should I be
looking bet just so I can get you like
give me 10 minutes like what what are
things that you need help on initially
that if I give you pointers in the right
direction you might be able to fix while
I'm at
bet oh we
do it's just really Jank
thing top of
Step wait it's jck CU
reset the fail penalty let me see
fail what do you mean the first
fail so it
plays yeah
this okay but explain to me right so
it's playing the
game it the game play is very samey
right you're just passing other cars you
get to the end of day
one bad10
reward
oh yeah don't do that dude don't give it
a negative
10 it's removed in the new WB which is
the thing that's going right now I
so I don't understand so I don't
understand this day failed thing bet
because here's the thing right
like you should get this virtually
immediately
wrong
one
okay
see yeah but you just you just linked me
the new run didn't didn't you did you
just link me this run that's going right
now yes okay so this is almost like
we're going to have this result in a
second um but here's the thing I don't
understand so there's this days failed
right this days failed thing happens
when the game terminates right which is
when you run out of time and haven't
passed enough cars that should happen
basically instantly because you
randomize the start time right so at
least some of the environment should
have
this oh when it does happen instantly it
happens you fail one
day and then does this mean that you're
failing on day
two so does this mean that you've passed
a
day but it doesn't say any completed
days so I don't understand how this
makes any sense
and looking at
um days
okay so first of all the10 reward is not
breaking is not the thing that's
breaking this because you would see like
a policy crash you'd see some crazy
Spike here I don't see that so it's
something else um I don't understand
this graph
because you fail day one a
bunch
broken well this is not going up anymore
so it's not passing level
one cars to pass continues to
right which it should because these two
should just be inverses right it's 200
minus this isn't
it which doesn't add up
either red is good blue is
bad yeah but I don't see okay I mean
we'll watch it but like look it's the
same
here and I don't see it that sus yeah I
don't think that this this new run where
I don't think that reward the -10 was
the thing magically breaking it though
is what I'm trying to
say
um it's interesting that this increases
so here's the thing I want to know with
this this day is failed how are you
logging
this
like is this saying is this like just a
global variable that doesn't
reset it's broken
again yeah
so good thing is that the runs are
quick this episode reward is really
screwy as well though I guess it is
going to be screwy because okay fine it
is going to be screwy but I'm not even
seeing the reward going on
curve if you're getting a reward every
time that you pass a
car Global car okay so that's completely
irrelevant then this is just yeah um yo
bet if your main reward is from passing
cars then you should get a stable curve
going up that shouldn't be crazy
ones I also don't know how you're
logging reward I guess this is just a
random ass
what you don't reward doesn't accumulate
that like you get a reward for doing a
thing and then it goes back to zero
that's how RL works like that you don't
accumulate that what I'm saying though
is that the reward should continue to go
up because like on average you should be
getting more rewards as the policy gets
better right you should be passing more
cars yes it can only pass so many cars
per step but the reward should go up for
a while
right can only be passing no it can be
passing a fraction of zero that's going
to be equal to like one over however
many steps on average it takes to pass a
car right so basically you should see it
go from like something very close to
zero up to it could be from 0 to 0.0
like 02 or 03 but you should see a clean
curve to that that's what you want you
should see a clean curve to that
well you don't want something to be
spiky in the first place look if you're
just like randomly like every 32 steps
or 128 steps sampling the current
rewards yeah this is going to be a mess
um let me show you do I have this I
might have something for this
[ __ ] okay then I'm going to give you a
quick description of this if you're just
if you're sampling reward like right
here okay if you're just saying like
every so many ticks you just average the
current reward that's going to be really
like Jank estimate what you should do is
just every step so like up here or here
right average the rewards append them to
a buffer just like append them to a
buffer so do this basically right self
rewards equals like this actually don't
call it the rewards because that'll mess
it up buffer okay and then you do self.
rewards buffer. append numpy mean self.
rewards and then you do reward
is numpy means s rewards buffer
infos append no rewards buffer and then
do this okay this thing right like
do that because you need to get a reward
curve that you can actually watch go
up and then you should be able to get
cars pass per day to
increase like yes you have very sparse
metrics but you're also you have like a
million step per second training so you
should be getting multiple full games do
you have episode length here
well yeah so bet even if you have 13,000
length episodes like who gives a [ __ ]
right you're training it a million steps
per second so you're getting hundreds of
games per second logged right doesn't
matter or a 100 games per second logged
is
okay I also keep resetting to random you
don't need to do that though is the
thing you can do that if you want but
like you should have already broken the
Symmetry like you like by doing it at
the start you broke the symmetry so you
should be getting consistent logging
they're not going to like all sync up at
least they
shouldn't not random it doesn't matter
though after the first init it can go
back to the cuz here's the thing if you
have like 100 seconds left on this m and
200 on this end right so after 100
seconds this one resets goes back to the
beginning and then another 100 seconds
pass
the next one resets so then there're
still 100 Z right so it should totally
be fine what you need to do is you just
need to get yourself consistent stable
metrics by like averaging correctly over
a bunch of M's and trials all right like
what you're doing
here like you need to like this is going
to probably be up until you get you run
out of n's right like this section is
probably just you ran out of M's that
have reset like partial resets so like
these these are like partial episodes
and then this is like when you're
training on full episodes so my guess is
that it's probably not learning very
much here and what you need to do is you
need to get a reward curve that goes up
by getting a stable estimate of the
reward okay that could be um it could be
cars like past cars it could be this
thing going up like it has to go up from
here keep going up from there or
something like that but yeah let me just
make sure you're not training with
stupid parameters
PE Lambda and right this is kind of high
but fine red
Norm yeah this is stupid right here yo
bet this you got this from some crazy
Jank sweep this oh no no no wait never
mind I'm wrong yeah yeah this is fine
this is the clip coefficient this is a
little aggressive but
fine yeah this should probably work go
mess with this for a bit you should be
able to get you should be able to like
get uh stable reward curves and get
something going up I'll be back in
hopefully like an hour hour and a
halfish okay and then I will help you
with this from there and I will go
through this live and I'll compile
stuff all right thanks